# A Markdown Parser using Lex and Yacc

This is a simple parser for markdown designed using lex and yacc. Flex has been used for lexical analysis and bison for syntax parsing. The following tags have been implemented:
### 1. Paragraphs
The  &lt;p> and &lt;/p> tags can be used to enclose paragraphs to automatically indent the first line and insert a newline after the last line. A paragraph can be started with $ to prevent the inital indentation on the first line like so: <b>&lt;p>$ ...&lt;/p></b>
### 2. Line Breaks
Line breaks can be inserted in the middle of any string with the &lt;br> tag which inserts a new line when parsed.
### 3. Headings
Headings can be written by prefixing a string with tag and enclosing it by curly braces like <b>#{insert_heading_here}</b>. The heading when displayed in stdout is displayed completely in uppercase to indicate that it is a heading. <br>
<b>Note:</b> Headings cannot be declared inside paragraphs or lists as that will result in syntax error.
### 4. Lists
Lists can be declared with the &lt;list> and &lt;/list> tags. New items can be added with the &lt;si> tag inside a list. Whenever a new item is to being written, it should be started with &lt;si> to parse it as such. For example, <br>
<b>&lt;list>&lt;si>one &lt;si>two&lt;/list></b> will be parsed as: <br>
1. one
2. two<br><br>
<b>Note:</b> Lists cannot be declared inside a paragraph and must be declared outside.

## Instructions to run
 
The executable can be generated by running <code>make</code> in cmd or terminal (after changing the appropriate commands in the makefile) and running <code>make clean</code> after it to delete all the intermediate files.

## Things to work on
- Support for nested paragraphs and lists.
- Informative error messages for syntax errors (currently the process just terminates upon being unable to correctly parse the input).
- Support for hyperlinks and tables.
- Parsing strings not enclosed by tags (currently strings are parsed only if they are in a paragraph or list and anything else is treated as a syntax error)
<br>

## Short summary of the working

The lexical analyser matches and generates tokens for strings and all the tags mentioned above and passes the processed tokenized input to the syntax parser. The <code>program</code> rule in the yacc file is the start symbol and the input is parsed if and only if the entire input can be reduced to <code>program</code> using the rules defined. The <code>string</code> rules parse strings (the <code>STRING</code> token) and the &lt;br> tag (the <code>NEWLINE</code> token). The <code>heading</code> rules parse headings. The <code>list</code> and <code>listmed</code> rules parse lists. The <code>expr</code> rules parse paragraphs and also is the penultimate symbol as the entire input is converted to a series of <code>expr</code> symbols (expressions) before getting converted to the start symbol <code>program</code>.
